Aoi, Naoya, you seem to be unconvinced.
I’m confused because illustrations are copyrighted work,
yet Kasumi says they are not.
Because it looks similar, isn’t that copyright infringement?
Let me explain what a copyrighted work is in the first place.
The definition of a work is explained in Article 2(1)(i) as follows:
“a creatively produced expression of thoughts or sentiments that
falls within the literary, academic, artistic, or musical domain.”
In other words, it must be ‘expressed,’
and ideas are not works of authorship.
Since the painting style is an idea, mere similarity in style
does not constitute copyright infringement.
I see.
When I think of it, I hear that cooking recipes
are not copyrighted works.
Of course, if there is a work that looks similar to an original
picture, like a traced copy, there is a possibility of
copyright infringement.
In the case of recipes, the cooking procedure itself is an idea.
Still, copyrightability may be found if expressed in writing,
so we must be careful.
It means they might be creatively expressing thoughts
or sentiments.
Yes. The difficult part is to
‘creatively express thoughts or sentiments.’
In many cases, articles that describe facts as they are,
mere data, and commonplace expressions are not considered
copyrighted works.
For example, when a celebrity passes away,
an article such as ‘On what date and year he died of cancer
at what age’ is not considered a copyrighted work.
In this case, in addition to that, an article that summarizes
the celebrity’s life in detail would be regarded as
a copyrighted work
As for the data, for example, even if you had trouble collecting
the height data of all the students at your university,
it would not be copyrighted work because the data would be
the same no matter who collected it.
As for commonplace expressions, for example,
“It was raining, so I put up my umbrella,”
is not copyrighted work if it is an expression that anyone can use.
I would have trouble writing something like that and be confused
if I was accused of copyright infringement.
Yes, we would be in trouble.
In this case, there is no original painting,
so the only similarities are in touch and color.
Such a painting style is not copyrightable,
and merely having a common style does not constitute copyright
infringement since it is not within the scope of protection
under the Copyright Law.
You should not get so easily involved in such social media
outrage caused by these misunderstandings.
Good thing it happened before it went viral.
You were both so excited and saying it was a rip-off!
I’ll be careful.